Editorial - Blocks (#6289)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/bronze/usaco-1205.mdx

## Explanation

For every word, we have to verify whether we can form it by taking
at most one letter from each of the given blocks. Since we are
unaware of which block to choose first, we will enumerate over
their permutations, as there are only $4! = 24$ permutations of blocks. For each
permutation, we will greedily search through the blocks in that
order: whenever we get a match, we search for the next letter;
otherwise, we skip it.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <functional>
#include <iostream>

int main() {
	int n;
	std::cin >> n;
	std::array<std::array<int, 26>, 4> cnt{0};
	std::string block;
	for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
		std::cin >> block;
		for (char c : block) { cnt[i][c - 'A']++; }
	}

	auto is_possible = [&](std::string word) {
		std::array<int, 4> perm = {0, 1, 2, 3};
		do {
			for (int i = 0, j = 0; i < 4; i++) {
				bool ok = false;
				if (cnt[perm[i]][word[j] - 'A']) { j++; }
				if (j == (int)word.size()) { return true; }
			}
		} while (std::next_permutation(begin(perm), end(perm)));
		return false;
	};

> 	for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {

Reviewer: does this have to be one indexed

Author: not really

Reviewer 2: imo here it doesn't really matter

---
id: usaco-1205
source: USACO Bronze 2022 February
title: Blocks
author: Rameez Parwez
---

[Official Editorial (C++, Java, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_feb22.html)

## Explanation

For every word, we have to verify whether we can form it by taking
at most one letter from each of the given blocks. Since we are
unaware of which block to choose first, we will enumerate over
their permutations, as the total number of blocks is only $4$

> $\texttt{(i.e., 4! = 24 permutations only)}$. For each

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
their permutations, as there are only $4! = 24$ permutations of blocks. For each
```
